{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red27\green29\blue31;\red255\green255\blue255;\red8\green69\blue135;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c14118\c15294\c16078;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c34902\c60000;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19860\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Evolution of Adversarial Neural Net Swarms\
\
\
Idea:\
Evolve a neural net \'93organism\'94 that operates as a swarm to attack or defend against an adversarial network.\
\
Hopeful end result: 2 and 3d models of nn swarms that can defend against a co-evolved predator\
\
\

\f1\b Swarm NN\
\

\f0\b0 population 50 - 1000
\f1\b \
\

\f0\b0 Chromosome: structure of the NN, we want these NN\'92s to learn to work together!\
Fitness Function: total number of members (maybe % of survivors?) that survive the attack (could add acquisition of food to this as well)\
\
\
each generation fends of attacks from Predator NN
\f1\b \
\

\f0\b0 each organism 
\f1\b \
\
Predator NN:\

\f0\b0 \
Fitness Function: total # of Swarm consumed
\f1\b \
\
Possible Scenarios to Model:\

\f0\b0 * large swarm vs individual\
* large swarm vs small swarm\
* large swarm vs large swarms\
* variable size swarms that self-optimize size\
* variable size swarm vs fixed size swarm\
\
\

\f1\b Saving Compute Time:\

\f0\b0 Each generation lives for 
\f1\b t 
\f0\b0 ticks before being bred, I think that 
\f1\b t 
\f0\b0 should increase with the number of generations, organisms in early generations won\'92t know to avoid enemies they will get eaten right away unless they have an avoidance mutation. Short generation times will still capture for these early strategies, while increasing 
\f1\b  t 
\f0\b0 for later generations will allow more advanced strategies to emerge.  
\f1\b  
\f0\b0 \
\

\f1\b Steps:\

\f0\b0 1. Create the simulation environment\
2. Create the organism model\
3. Create the evolution model\
4. Run the scenarios\
5. Expand to 3rd dimension\
\

\f1\b Previous Work/Inspiration/Source:\

\f0\b0 organism vision: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BBLJFYr7zB8\
Daniel Shiffman, Coding Rainbow\
\

\f1\b Random Ideas:\

\f0\b0 Could give the swarm an overall sense of where it\'92s mass is by adding neurons that represent quadrants of the playing field. \
in the current way I\'92m envisioning this there must be multiple swarm types at once, how should this work?\
	Are we hoping that individuals learn to swarm by themselves? Or are we saying that each swarm has X number of members, and swarms that learn to use their members more effectively are more likely to reproduce? So each swarm is one organism with many members. Or could just let all organisms breed by themselves, e.g. no duplicate organisms, but keep the fitness function being total number of prey organisms that survive. This should still incentivize cooperative behaviors, and could lead to more novel strategies. Okay, so basically the only thing that\'92s changing this from a normal survival of the finest scenario is that instead of the fitness function representing the health of the individual, it represents the health of the group as a whole. That\'92s really the hypothesis being tests here: 
\f1\b Does a fitness function that represents group health lead to cooperative behavior?\
\
\
Calculating whether a point is within a circular wedge (needed for sight)\

\f0\b0 https://stackoverflow.com/questions/13652518/efficiently-find-points-inside-a-circle-sector\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa300\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs30 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 For a point to be inside a\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circular_sector"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 circular sector}}, it has to meet the following tests:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340\sa150\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 It has to be positioned counter-clockwise from the start "arm" of the sector.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 It has to be positioned clockwise from the end arm of the sector.\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340\sa300\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 It has to be closer to the center of the circle than the sector's radius.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f3\b \cf2 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 Find coordinates of point on a circle closest to another point\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2\b0 https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/127613/closest-point-on-circle-edge-from-point-outside-inside-the-circle\
This let\'92s us see other organisms based on their closest point (instead of based on their center point)\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f3\b Designing the NN\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2\b0 https://stats.stackexchange.com/questions/181/how-to-choose-the-number-of-hidden-layers-and-nodes-in-a-feedforward-neural-netw\
\
Based on this advice, we\'92re going to start with a NN with 1 hidden layer with 4 perceptrons\
\
I     L   O\
\
0  \
0\
0 x 0\
0 x 0 x 0\
0 x 0 x 0\
0 x 0\
0\
0\
\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f3\b Numpy makes it very easy to compute the output of a neural network\
\
\ls1\ilvl0relu vs sigmoid\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2\b0 relu = x => max(0, x)\
sigmoid = 1 / (1 + exp(-x))\
\
At 0.0 sigmoid returns .5 while relu returns 0, so relu makes more sense if we don\'92t want our organisms to react when they don\'92t see anything. \
\
With relu, the untrained model actually performs pretty well.\
\
\ls1\ilvl0Once we have training set up I\'92ll experiment with sigmoid to see if the organisms come up with more interesting default behavior.\
\
Well, when they can\'92t see anything, they are forced to either move in a straight-line or in a circle. Without changing inputs, they can\'92t change directions\
\
So testing with sigmoid would just be a test to see what radius circle they choose (and in what direction they choose to turn). Going straight would be a circle of infinite radius. \
\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f3\b Short term memory\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2\b0 \
It would be interesting to give the organisms some short term memory. e.g. let them remember what the last thing they sensed was, or even a few sense ticks back. Would this be equivalent to having multiple input layers?\
\
Might allow more interesting behavior when they haven\'92t been able to see anything for a couple ticks, but they remember seeing something say 5 ticks ago. Could learn to turn around?\
\
Could also let them decide to keep tracking something even when new prey or predator comes into view.\
\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f3\b Near-sightedness\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2\b0 Organisms can only sense the closest ally and enemy in each of 4 directions.\
\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f3\b Round-sightedness\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2\b0 Organism sight is currently omni-directional. Could experiment with the arrangement of senses. Maybe only let them see in front of themselves (in the direction of travel) or even make the placement of sight neurons part of their genetic code. Would they still evolve omni-sense? Would predators evolve directional sense to keep them more focused on one prey?}